---
#YAML part
layout: post
title: Average
tags: [Example_Tag1, ExampleTag2]
author: Adit Vishnu
categories: stories
image: "/assets/images/Stories/Average.jpeg"
excerpt: 'Sometimes, you must let your world fall apart to rebuild it with truth.'
featured: true
latest: false
all: true
---

Author: Adit Vishnu


Someone once told me that if I was the smartest person in a room, I was in the
wrong room. It was quite easy to say I believed in this until I had to face a complete
change in environment. As someone who quite easily made it to the far right of
any class yet, I had never really put myself in the shoes of the far left.

I understand now that it is, in every sense, belittling to be someone who actually
pulls the average down. The initial days were a crash course on how wrong I was
on a lot of counts, especially about myself. The calm and composed world I had
built around me came crashing down. I was drowning even before I realized I was
not on solid ground. Even worse, when I realized I was drowning, my thoughts
were not about how to swim. I was confused about why I was drowning in
the first place. Again, someone had told me that it was good to be confused,
with a caveat: you should think about how you can solve the problem.

Against instinct, I stopped struggling and decided to plummet to the
bottom, knowing that the answers to my questions were definitely
not on the surface. The answers I came upon were simple but
not easy to digest. The calm and composed world I’d built for
myself had foundations of hypocrisy. It was time to tear
the world down as I had known it. It took a fairly long
time, but my world was up again, this time on firm,
solid ground with foundations of raw truth and
adversity. I guess it took a bit of anarchy
and chaos to bring world order.

