---
#YAML part
layout: post
title: Introspections on the Third Step
#tags: [Example_Tag1, ExampleTag2]
author: Subhanan Banerjee
categories: stories
image: "/assets/images/Poems/BleedingsOfTameBeast.jpeg"
excerpt: 'Third Years'
featured: true
latest: true
all: true
---


A series of interviews taken by Rahul, a third-year undergraduate in IISc, with his fellows across different majors unveils the beauty and the beast… Of what is going on in the lives of the third year UGs these days. It not only upholds the insights of the courses and thriving in academics and the overview of summer internships but also their motivation and interest in research as well as friendship and non-academic activities; which still make the most of us, isn’t it so?<br>
There were eight of them across the different disciplines: Saumy, Shreya and Jay from Physics, Aditya from Biology, Mohana and Vamsi from Materials, Dattabhasvant (fondly known as Datta) from Mathematics and Amogh from Chemistry. As the course was designed at its birth, we have thesis in fourth year. Thus, they are literally at the brink of starting what is perhaps the soul of research. They also have specific fields of interests; Saumy specializing in quantum computing, Mohana interested in semiconductors and nanoscience, Aditya working in bioengineering, specifically on delivering immunotherapeutic drugs with minimal side effects and timed release, Shreya primarily interested in astrophysics and also pursuing a quantum technology minor, Jay planning to go on with either of astronomy or theoretical cosmology, Datta still exploring the beauty of Mathematics, Amogh interested in inorganic and physical chemistry with a focus on catalysis and spectroscopy and Vamsi interested in nanoscience.<br>
When asked about their perspective on the previous semesters and how they feel now about blackboard courses no longer forming a major part of semesters, their responses were quite mixed. In Saumy’s words, the courses and exams have been ‘Pretty chill!’ but the labs were ‘Pretty hectic!’. He says “Earlier, we used to have labs, from 2 to 5 everyday, you had to spend your time in the lab, and I didn’t like that I moved towards the theoretical side, so right now, things are more relaxed.” <br>
“So far, we’ve had a lot of coursework and some heavy lab work. Moving into actual research — coming up with project ideas and performing experiments — will be a whole new challenge, but I’m looking forward to it” says Amogh. I swear, this is something we long for when labs bang a protocol on you; ‘when will I design an experiment by myself?’
Aditya admits that he indubitably loves the labs much more than coursework. “Frankly, I’m happy to be done with coursework. I think the coursework at IISc is quite redundant” says Aditya. In his opinion, many professors focus on their own specialized research. “The work often doesn’t align with the course title or description, and they pile four credits worth of work into two-credit courses. It ends up being a lot of stress” he adds. It must be kept in mind that the perspectives on course structure, research, and attachment to lab work over theory or vice versa are highly subjective to the discipline chosen and his or her personal choices, for such differences have been through all ages of science.<br>
Certainly, all of them were happy that the credit requirements were met or would be met soon, but some perspectives are worth mentioning, nonetheless. “The coursework is okay, but I would definitely like more variety in the courses” Mohana says excitedly, indicating her plan of exploring more courses. Curiosity is biggest power of people of science, isn’t it? She also insists that she found some overlaps in her previous courses, while that helps in establishing an overall coherence, it also leads to repetition of the same things oftentimes. Dutta points out that now he would be converging to his likes, no more studying four different topics!<br>
Science is strange, because you need focus to be a good scientist, but you need variety and interdisciplinarity in ideas to be a great one. And the dynamics of theory and application is like opposite charges, they together bring science into being… It’s philosophically beautiful when you realize that all we do in life is balance.
Let’s see what’s their plan is about staying with research. <br>
“I’m definitely looking forward to it” says Aditya, “Whether working here or outside IISc, research has been the most rewarding. I feel like the best learning happens when you’re reading papers and applying that knowledge in your work. Practical research stays with you because you can apply it!”<br>
“My interest in research has only grown because of the projects” says Jay.
“My perspective on research has changed in a positive way since the middle of my fifth semester. Initially, I wasn’t too keen on pursuing a PhD, but the more maths I did, the more I realized it’s the direction” Dutta affirms. Research is truly something you never know unless you are into it.<br>
Amogh admits, “research has been one of my favourite parts of my time at IISc, and it’s a vital part of our degree as well. I’m looking forward to my thesis and continuing with research in future.”<br>
Saumy says, “If I be rather honest, I’m more inclined toward the industry side.” “I’m not trying to run away from the field yet,” Mohana says lightly. Vamsi shows an interest in UPSC, indicating a probable shift in his field in future. He also mentions that he would be eligible for the Prelims next year, that is while being in his fourth year.
Summer internships are certainly a vital thing for us in IISc, so our candidates were asked about the same.<br> Generally, the stir-ups about summer begin around the mid of every even semester, but primarily third year summer is a prime time. Some choose hands-on experience of cutting-edge ideas while some read newer topics, in IISc or outside, may be in India or abroad. The summer work is also potential fuel for the sessions of the respective UG clubs. Let’s hear them.<br>
The process of application for a summer internship was primarily described as tough by many. The factors like CGPA, exposure to different fields, availability of funding etc. altogether form the paraphernalia. One needs to mail professor all around, providing statements of purpose and furnished CVs, in simple words, it’s tough! However, there are lots of uncertainties leading to popular misbeliefs. As Aditya mentions that its almost a rumour that it’s the GPA that matters, may be true to some extent but most institutions especially abroad are keen to look for your skills, not only your GPA. Some also mentioned that the background player forcing you to apply for internships in summer is the peer pressure. Very true! Human beings are by nature competitive, that is what gives one the constancy of endeavour. “You always feel like others are applying and you don’t want to lag. But in the end, it’s up to you how much you let that affect you” Jay makes a point, “I’ve already been nominated for the ANU FIT program in Australia, so that’s exciting.”<br>
“Especially in physics, the peer pressure is intense. Our core classes often happen with MSc and PhD students, and it’s very competitive. One thing I really don’t like is how some professors reuse old question papers for exams. People who just memorize those papers often end up scoring higher than those who study” Shreya says, pointing to its effect on grades and indirectly on summer internships. <br>
Just for fun, do you know some words in English if interpreted literally by fragments of Latin, Greek or French roots, often means quite hilarious things? So, does the word ‘Examination’.
So, what are the plans? “I started a project this winter, and it’s extending into the semester. It looks like it might continue into the summer too, so I’ll focus on that” says Dutta. <br>
“I have applied to around six or seven places, but honestly, I’m not looking forward to going outside for an internship”, Amogh says. “While external internships offer exposure and networking opportunities, they don’t always allow you to do meaningful research in a short period of time. From what I’ve heard from seniors, a lot of time is spent settling into the lab and getting familiar with people and processes. Staying at IISc and working in a familiar lab seems more flexible and productive to me” he adds. <br>
“I already had international experience last year. I’ve been working with a in IISc lab for almost a year now, and I’d be happy to continue working on meaningful research here rather than rushing for an internship that may not add real value” says Aditya. <br>
“I’ve asked a professor from the Quantum Technologies department if I can work in his lab. Hopefully, if he allows me, I’ll be doing my work there over the summer” says Saumy. When asked about the opportunities in the industrial counterparts, he adds, “Most internship opportunities are for master’s students, but some companies allow BS and BTech students as well. So, I’m applying wherever possible”<br>
Struggle is life. What matters is if one’s motivation is resilient enough. Well, there is a greater part of our life; friends, pals, comrades, companions, fellows whatever… In A P J Abdul Kalam’s word, “A good book is equivalent of a friend, but a good friend is equivalent of library.” So were our panel asked about their friend circles; how else do their friends help them than creating peer pressure!<br>
Before hearing them its vital to note a connection and a friend differ. For how I define: A ‘friend’ becomes friend on its own, a connection is befriended for a purpose… When Rahul asked if they made friends to stay a lifetime, Saumy says, “We have a group of six or seven people, and I’d very much like to continue this bond even after college. I’d like to meet up and stay in touch. I’ve met very nice people here, including you.” Sentences are not merely summation of words, but some sentences are like unevaluable integrals, people of physics know how vital they are… <br>
Mohana says, “We do have differences sometimes, but I’ve made a couple of good friends here” 
“That’s a complicated question.” Aditya takes a moment and continues, “being at IISc has taught me who to be with and who to avoid. I have a few people I consider friends for life, but it’s been a learning experience figuring out who those people are.” <br>
However, Jay doesn’t feel the same. “I’m okay with that. Life is dynamic. People come and go, and you just have to adapt. I believe in enjoying life as it happens without getting too attached.” That’s too a way, anyway who knows what’s the rightest, if that’s a word…<br>
“I’m not sure yet.” Vamsi says. “I’ve made friends, and we’ve had good times, but I wouldn’t say for sure if they’re lifelong connections” So, what I interpret, friendship is superposed state, measurement of which destroys the state and reduces it to ‘friend’ or ‘not-friend’. However, it’s a non-ideal system, so it interacts with you and again becomes a superposition, that needs to be measured again… That’s a nice property, nonetheless.<br>
“Definitely!” Amogh exclaims well-spiritedly. “IISc brings together people from so many different walks of life. Some of the people I met on my very first day here are still close friends. Others joined my journey along the way, and some moved on. But I know I’ve made friendships and connections that I’ll cherish for life.”
Datta says “I’ve had my own unique experiences here, and while I hope some of the friendships I’ve made will last, only time will tell. I’ve certainly learned a lot from the people I’ve met.” For how it will feel if it stays life long, he adds, “I’d love for that to happen.”<br>
“Most of the people here are nice and helpful — both in academics and personally. I’ve made some very good friends here” Shreya admits with warmth. Its so generic to IISc’s UG, especially that the Physics majors fight so much with their non-Physics major friends but still want to stick to them.<br><br>

‘Many great discoveries were by mistakes; many great inventions were by ignorance and many great ideas were discussed for the first time on evening walks.’ There is really no way of defining how an ideal scientist is built. There was Paul Dirac who spoke less than five words in an hour, there was Werner Heisenberg too, inevitably the best dancer in a ball. Einstein used to play the Violin, whereas S N Bose was a great Esraj player, but he was greater a scientist. Homi J Bhabha was described as ‘equivalently a man of art, as was he a man of Science.’
On being asked about extracurricular activities, Shreya says “Snooker!” <br>
“I’ve been into cricket since seventh grade and used to practice it professionally. But life at IISc is quite hectic, so I haven’t had enough time for it recently. This year, I decided to take up music instead. I follow it religiously and even conduct music classes for the Rhythmica Academy, the music club here. Music is very close to my heart” says Jay.<br>
“I read both fiction and nonfiction”, says Datta, “I’ve recently gotten into going to the gym. I’ve been consistent with that over the past year, I also enjoy running.”<br>
Amogh laments on the lack of time for leisure with the hectic semester. “But I do enjoy listening to music and taking walks around the campus… Despite all the construction and the alarming rate at which trees are being cut down, the campus still has its moments of beauty, and I really appreciate that.”<br>
“I enjoy sports and working out. I play volleyball, and I’ve played for Eclipse as well.” Vamsi says. Eclipse is the annual UG sports tournament of IISc.<br>
“I love sports. I’ve had some injuries that limited my involvement earlier, but I’m getting back into it. IISC’s sports facilities are fantastic — the track and gym are great.” Aditya admits. “I also love watching movies, though the Wi-Fi interruptions here make streaming a challenge”, he chuckles.
Mohana says she too played snooker and got a couple of medals in Spectrum, another annual sports tournament of IISc.
Saumy mentions that he does coding in his free time as a passion. “I sometimes play football and a lot of table tennis. Recently, I’ve been trying out new sports like lawn tennis, which I found very interesting. It’s a great game — you should try it too” he adds.<br><br>

As a formality to end, all of them were asked for their perspectives as the third years in the UG program. Here’s how they put it.<br>
“One thing I’d say is to make good bonds as early as possible and connect with good people. Even if your semester isn’t going well, those people will be there for you. That’s the most important thing. Sometimes, you hear about unfortunate cases here — people struggling with mental health. Life gives you only one chance, so making bonds with good people is crucial” says Saumy.<br>
“My journey at IISc has been a mix of confusion and clarity. In my first year, I wasn’t sure if I belonged here — it was a sudden decision for me to join this program. But over time, I’ve realized that I do like the course, and I’m happy with my decision. The first few semesters were confusing, but things have settled now. I still have some doubts sometimes, but overall, I think it was a good choice” says Mohana.<br>
Aditya insists for prospective students on thinking twice before taking the course. He comments critically that the program was designed greatly, but poor administration has added some challenges. “IISc often feels like a glorified government institute where student welfare often takes the back seat. The institute’s bureaucracy and ego-driven culture create unnecessary hurdles. That said, I’m here to get my degree, and I’ll make the most of the opportunities available despite these issues”<br>
“I really like IISc — I wanted to come here, and I’m happy I got in. I only found out about IISc six months before my JEE Advanced exam, but once I learned about its focus on research, I knew it was the right choice for me. I’m grateful to be here, despite the challenges” says Shreya.<br>
“I just want to keep things simple. I don’t want to complicate life by being too attached or overly competitive. The simpler you take life, the easier it becomes” says Jay.<br>
“Being at IISc has been a humbling experience. Before joining, I thought quite highly of myself, but being here and meeting so many brilliant people has put things into perspective. It hasn’t destroyed my self-esteem, but it’s taught me humility” says Datta.<br>
“For materials majors like us, the third year has been tough. We’ve had attendance issues, and our professors are very strict. Even when we want to work on projects, we don’t get proper support” says Vamsi.<br>
“The UG program here is quite unique compared to other programs in India. It offers world-class research exposure, but it also comes with intense academic pressure. The UG office’s administration can sometimes be frustrating, and there’s room for improvement in how things are managed. Still, the program gives you the framework and skills to pursue research or even other career paths in a holistic and well-rounded way” says Amogh.<br>
It’s a genuine reflection of the undergraduates; sometimes an appraisal, sometimes an outburst; like a wave that has a complicated Fourier series expansion! Nevertheless, these small talks bring a lot to ponder on the big table- from bioengineering to quantum technology, through lavish snooker to passionate music and across mild talk’n’walks to rejoicing lawn tennis; it spans upon the diverse demeanour of the most vibrant part of the campus residents. It also brings upon a critical response on the course that would surely help it confiscate and enrich to finally thrive upon the preamble that the course was designed upon.<br>
